OK.
So welcome to our talk.
We are going to talk about NPMX, a fast
modern browser for the NPMX registry.
Sewo is going to join later and do more of the
atmospheric part of the talk that you're going to be maybe
more interested about.
And yeah.
So Sewo is a software engineer and like an unofficial
DevRel for AdProto.
And I'm amazed that I'm able to do this talk
with her.
It is a kind of example that these young people are doing
open source in a way that I would have loved to do
when I was young.
So yeah, really, thank you Sewo.
And I'm an open source adventurer lately.
I'm a project steward of NPMX together with
Daniel.
And I'm part of the team of other open source projects
that you may have used, like VIT, VT
EST.
I'm part of the E18E community.
We did ELK, a Mastodon client,
when we tried to move there.
There is a lot of people from our core team here,
like Bailey is here.
I think Bailey is part of every team in the atmosphere.
So thanks, Bailey, for taking care of our data for
us and moving it around everywhere.
And Willow, I don't know if she's here
.
But yeah, Willow is very interesting, because when we
started NPMX, we saw that other three projects were
doing similar things.
This happened a lot when you have an idea that is ready
.
We all share a lot of context.
And people start to work in the same thing.
And the good thing is that we know each other.
We went.
We took it.
And we decided to work together.
And NPMX is here today, because we didn't
do four different alternatives to the browser for the npmx
.
com browser.
But we all work together.
So thank you, Willow.
And James is also here, part also of the core team
.
And he is leading E18E that I think you may
have seen him working on improving the performance of every package in
the ecosystem.
And the relationship between E18E and the NPMX
community is a great example of how we work, not only
internally, but also with other communities.
And later on, we are going to see a little bit
about that.
And Daniel say hi.
He will have love to be here.
And yeah, we wanted to include him, because he has
started the project.
So for people that are not programmers, when we talk about
packages, imagine if we would like to, for the ad
protocol, we would like to see the display name.
Blue Sky app has a nice public API for it.
But we normally don't start from scratch.
We use libraries that are distributed as packages.
So in JavaScript, we will import it.
A client, for example, from adq, from Marie
.
And we can create a client for that service.
And this let us do very comfortable with type it, like
functions, and get the display name in an easy way.
So packages let us build software collaboratively, and depending on
the work of amazing other people.
And don't start from scratch.
The package registry from the web, like the JavaScript, is
NPM.
You will do NPM install a client to get this one
in your project.
And in NPMX, we actually have a dependency on
Marie.
Like, we are using her libraries.
So thanks, Marie.
Not only on Marie, but on a lot of really wonderful
open source projects.
All the beta stack, NACs, Vue,
and JS org.
Like, there is so many people.
We couldn't have built NPMX without this in two
months.
We are relying on all this, the work of a lot
of people.
And in the case of NPM, so this is the
world largest software registry.
This is a graph from, like, Github released
it not long ago.
If you take into account JavaScript and TypeScript together, it
's like almost double of Python.
It is an amazing registry of the work of so many people
.
And it's a little bit hard to understand, because it
consists of three parts.
The registry is called NPM and has that logo.
The CLI is called NPM and has that logo.
And the website is called npmjs.
com and has the same logo.
So people, when they think about NPM, they think
about all the things together.
But there are three different parts.
Like, the registry where all the tarballs are stored,
and they have, like, a public API that you can
fetch.
The CLI is something, the command line interface that we
use to interact with that registry.
And the website allow us to browse, search, like,
do admin stuff.
So NPM, right now, it is on the hands
of Microsoft.
And yeah, they have not been adding a lot of features
lately to it.
So other open source people and, like, projects have been
trying to say, maybe we should innovate a little bit.
And so on the registry side, you have JSR from
the Deno Fox.
You have Vault that also were ex-NPM Fox,
trying to see, like, what they could improve.
Like, we could have, like, twice maybe as fast
if we are able to modify the server and, like,
make the CLI and the server together communicate in a little
bit better way.
On the CLI, this has been for a long time
.
YARN first showed a lot of innovation.
Then PMPM in the ecosystem.
And from then, now PMPM is huge.
We are all using PMPM.
And on the website side, we have nothing.
Actually, there are some things, for example, for the
graph, there is a lot of mini websites to do graph
, for the little graphs.
And they are, like, all YARN, JS
R, Bolt, all have their own little browsers.
But there's nothing that is, like, we can put
here.
And we actually need something there.
Because I don't know if you see how the light in
the room changed it.
But it only has light mode.
So for some of us, that is why we don't
use it.
And also, like, if you see the little weekly downloads
graph there, you can only see the last week.
You cannot, like, explore the graph.
There is so much more that we could do here.
And, like, the packages and all the relationships, it
is a social endeavor.
Like, we could see where are the maintainers?
Where are the-- I don't know where there are the
maintainers here.
Like, where are the relationship between the different packages?
All the graph of the different dependencies?
All these things are extremely important.
So Daniel sent to BlueSky these posts on January 23
, saying that for reasons, he would have to know what
are the frustrations with the package registry.
And a lot of people responded.
It's like 50 replies.
Nine hours later, he had a working prototype.
And he is starting to invite people to work with him.
He didn't take it for himself only.
And in the first week, that resulted in 50 PRs
in the first day.
So a lot of people were frustrated and wanted to actually change
things.
We created community chat.
And it's starting to invite people through DMs and through
BlueSky, like a big posting in BlueSky
a little bit.
Because we wanted to start intentionally growing the community.
One of that invite was to Zeo.
Because at the beginning, the first time that Daniel asked me
if I would like to work with him, I say,
like, we should do something with Ad Proto.
Because Ad Proto is awesome.
And so like this, I'm inviting Zeo, they
will say, yes.
And we started working together.
And the second week, at the end, we had 1
K issues and PRs.
It is like 1 every 20 minutes around the clock.
That is kind of impressive.
And we ended up with 100 contributors that were invited through these
, like, open networking.
The 1.
5 car starts without, like, real promotion.
It was like we didn't even want to mention the name
at the beginning.
People were saying, like, where is the link?
And yeah, you could find it.
If you really care, you could find it.
So we are back to the light thing.
And this resulted that if you go to any web page and
you put an X at the beginning, we are recovering the
X for something more important.
And you're going to get to dark mode.
So this is our browser for the MpMetor
Registry.
And we are seeing, like, Ad Qt client here
.
And, like, actually, we can-- I don't
know, like, we can go to Ad Qt.
So, yeah, you can see a package.
And you'll see that there is a graph.
And you can see that-- So, yeah, you can
see that there is a graph.
And you can see that there is a graph.
And this works, actually.
OK.
That's very interesting.
It will be a little bit more difficult.
So, yeah.
So we can go here.
And, yeah, now in the graph, we can see
a beautiful graph.
So, yeah.
And you can see, like, everything.
Yeah.
So, this thing that we're building is not only a
product.
We are also working together and constructing a massive team that is
going to be-- keep working on this project and in other
things that maybe we want to change.
And we are also already organized it a little bit from row
that you see there are all the maintainers of our project
.
These are the core team of our project.
And actually, these are just roles because there is resources that
we need to, like, keep together.
But we are all peers and work together.
And I think that why this work it, there is a
lot of things.
Each of these things will be a talk, but, like
, I will go very fast through it.
But there is a coherent consensual product vision, but
we try to iterate fast knowing that the code is my level
and we can keep changing it.
And we use versions so, like, we can iterate in
main and then, like, when it's ready we release
it.
Daniel is extremely good in doing that.
We lean in conventions, in libraries, like NACs
, that allow us to go extremely fast and don't discuss
absolutely every little detail.
We empower people that care about accessibility, performance, tests.
If you care about any of these things, come to work
with us.
We have a pragmatic path to a more open future, like
, we protect our trust network.
We don't open everything directly.
Like, we are very intentional because we care about other people
.
And we optimize for adoption.
And this may-- people would not like it a little bit
, but we actually meet users and contributors where they are.
And this means that we are using GitHub and Discord at this
moment.
And, yeah, people are not that happy, but we
will love long-term to change that.
We are rooting for Tangle.
We are rooting for Rumi.
We are rooting for everything that you are building.
And when things are ready, we are going to be mig
rating there.
And when we work in community, we are by humans and
for humans.
We-- our collaboration tools are community infrastructure.
We, like, try to mix the-- and go to
our Discord, you will see, like, it's full
with blue sky links.
Everyone that shares our values is welcome.
This is very important.
If you don't share our values, you can go build
something else.
New contributors are peers to us.
So as soon as you join and start contributing to the project
, you're going to feel that you're one of us
.
And you can-- you have a voice.
And you can change things.
And if you want to work, you're going to--
yeah, please, go.
Improve things.
We do governance roles and know hierarchy.
Ideas are discussed in the open, but we have a
lot of spaces of trust where we've hushed them
out.
And this is like mapping real life.
You first discuss with your friends, with your colleagues, and
then you go to the public.
This is important.
When you have, like, these private spaces, you're
not taking things from the public and putting them there.
You're taking things from DMs and putting them up.
And we shape our line of space together.
We decide what tools we use together.
And this team is kind of like an ever-growing
, healthy network of trust that we have been building things,
like, forever, like, from VIT, VIT
ES, people from the AdProtto community have been
doing a lot of things that now we're doing together.
And this is very thrilling and very exciting.
So after all this, in the second week, in the
third week, we were not sleeping.
People were sleeping, like, three hours a day, and
it was not healthy at all.
So we ended up deciding that we needed to change that.
And we decided to take a vacation.
When the project was going exponential, we just stopped working for
a week.
And this, we locked this court.
We stopped emerging PRs for a week.
Some of us went to this mountain with the family and snow
board, and some other people stayed touching grass in ways they
like it to do.
For example, programming other things, because they cannot stop.
Luke, for example, did a nice browser extension that mod
ifies the GitHub graph to have grass instead.
And when he did it, actually, he did it differently
.
And our community told him, you know what, when you
contribute a lot, it should have less grass.
And actually, he did that.
So like, the more you work, the tighter the grass
is.
And if you work too much, they will be like brown
patches.
So this is, when we add this feature to MPM
X, it's going to be this.
So yeah, the fourth week went out, the vacation is
out, and we have been working, Salma is working
with us, and she's an amazing outreacher.
And she prepared me this idea of like having a lot of
lunch in the sixth week with a lot of blog posts.
So like, from this one, we did a web ring
that we linked it to 26 other blog posts.
He did one about how to make your first contribution to open
source, so go read that if you want to do it
.
Daniel talked about how it's a lot better to have a
team, the next team instead of the next developer.
I wrote about conversion communities because, again, like, this
work it, because at the beginning there was already a network
of trust between a lot of people.
Alex wrote a book about this month, so like, if
you want to really know what is going on, like,
you go check that one.
Grafieros, like, is the one doing the
graphic magic, there is a library from Vue, and
he talked about how you can improve, like, how much
the library improves, and this was also something that we saw
with Elk, like, all the stack improved because the
people doing the libraries are now users and can improve things.
Thank you for all the, yeah, for inviting us here
, and actually, like, the Elk product community have
been so good from 2MPMX to the beginning.
The BlueSky team also was our first sponsor, that
is a nice piece of lore, and we have already other
sponsors like Vercel, Voice Zero, NetdeFi
, and Vault also, and, yeah, and we are
talking with other companies that want to help us.
If you are a company and want to help us, please
, talk with us.
James wrote about the collaborating with NPMX, Philippe
, that worked in NetdeFi, like, talked about
, yeah, how working, like, he's a senior
developer, has so much knowledge, but still these months,
these two months really helped him.
Paula, actually, I love this blog post, like,
you should go read it, like, she wrote about,
her first contribution to open source, and how she overcome the
Hilary Poster syndrome, and now she's a very
important part of our community, she did that, so many
features, we are talking about doing a talk together, maybe
, in another conference later in the year.
Storybook also, like, another good relationship that we,
like, they are already, like, putting some little things
there, I don't know if JSON is here, but
, like, we also launched it with a Code TV blog
post, a stream that was really nice, and so,
yes, now we have an answer for that.
There is NPMX.
And, yeah, so, one of the things about,
like, this collaboration that I was mentioning between other communities,
if you go to FastGlobe, for example,
this was a library that everybody uses, you can see that
it has 94 million downloads, so, like, a lot
of people will actually go and check the downloads and install it
without syncing.
But if you see now, in our UI, we have
a notation from the people, the A18E, they
curate this module replacement annotation, and it says that you
may not need this dependency, and if you click the link
, you are going to see that it talks about replacement,
like TinyGlobe, that is half the size,
and actually, like, it shows you how you have to
replace it, and this is very good because they were doing
this work, and now they can rest a little bit,
and other people can do it directly.
And yes, and we keep working on features, like,
for example, James had this idea, it's still not
on the main, but the idea of, like, we
can show so much information.
I seen in the conference there was this idea of, like
, surfacing all this information in a good way, and
, for example, James had this idea that between versions we
can show how they install size, or if there is a
license change, and we can show, like, the good
things, the warnings, the red things, if, like
, for example, like, a license would change to be
not, not be open source anymore.
And so, yeah, this is very important to us,
and I want to say that I didn't talk about at
Proto specifically so far, because we are first doing a
website that is very useful for a lot of people, and
this website has a lot of opportunities to actually be a social
website, because doing open source and all the packages is a
social endeavor, again, and mph.
com will do so much more in that regard.
So, we are going to Zeo.
Thank you so much
.
Do you want to be called Patak or Matias?
Both are fine.
Great.
Another round of applause for Matias for that wonderful presentation.
Seriously, MPMX is such an amazing project, and
I'm so happy for Matias to invite me to work
on it with him alongside a great number of community members.
So, one of the big pillars of MPMX is
really, really showcasing the community, right?
Open source is not just about code, it is about the
people who make the code work, who make it happen,
to make it usable for anyone, right?
Tools not only for developers, but for users, right?
And so, when I got asked to be a part of
this project, my main goal is to add social features,
right?
And of course, we're here at Atmosphere Conf
, and so the protocol we use is App Protocol.
And there are multiple reasons as to why we use the App
Protocol, and the main one for me is how developer-
friendly it is.
So, sorry, I'm just taking a look-see
here.
So one of the core pillars of App Protocol is data sovereignty
, being able to own your data, being able to say
that I made that data, that that data is mine,
and being able to show that to other people.
The main way that App Protocol does this is with the PD
S, the personal data server.
And there are multiple ways of doing this.
First up is doing it self-hosted.
We're developers, we like to, you know, have
servers on our own, whether they be tiny raspberry pies in
the corner of our room, or $5 VPSs
in the cloud somewhere.
Or even like beefy racks, you know?
I wish in the future I have a server rack in my
home, if I have the money for it, you know
?
Like, having your own PDS doesn't need something that
beefy, right?
Right now, mine is currently at self-hosted.
social, but you as developers, woo, self-host
ed!
Yeah, big ups, big ups, woo!
So, you as developers can easily spin one up using N
PM Create PDS, shout out to mk.
gg, I saw your, that's their handle, I
saw their presentation yesterday about this wonderful CLI they made that
allows you to spin up Cirrus, the very lightweight PD
S that you could just spin up on a Cloudflare
worker, right?
Yeah, yeah, I'm getting a nod, I'm
getting a thumbs up there.
But you don't have to self-host it yourself.
You can instead, as a user, be a part of
a community.
So NPMX does have a community-hosted server
, kind of like Blue Sky with its mushroom servers, N
PMX has the same thing where users can host their data
with us.
That way you don't have to spin up your own server
, that's fine, you can migrate into NPMX
as well.
You can see here that Daniel Rowe and Patak already
have their data on there.
And this PDS is not just anywhere, it is actually
only three hours away by train to Euroskies
servers in Germany.
It is really close.
So it is in Europe, so if you're worried about
your data being hosted in the US, don't worry.
If you're on NPMX, it is in,
double-checking, Germany.
So any regulations, GDPR, data compliance stuff, it
is, you know, all there.
Once again, I want to give a big ups to the
PDS czar of the project, Bailey Townsev
.
He is here.
Thank, seriously.
We were literally talking, like when I got into the project
, we were like, okay, we're going to implement
ad protocol.
All right.
But with that in mind, some people, some users,
they won't, you know, they aren't in the
atmosphere yet.
They got to have, you know, a way to get
into the atmosphere without, you know, going through blue sky
if they have any big hangups there.
So I literally DM Bailey once.
Like, literally, like maybe a day or two later,
the PDS is up.
So it's amazing.
And if you're here in person, that's what he
looks like.
If you're online or even here, and you're like
, I don't know who Bailey is, you do promise
me.
Like, the pumpkin is great branding, shout out Bailey.
Seriously, like I keep telling him, he needs like a
pumpkin mask to wear in person so that you know it's
him.
So once again, thank you so much, Bailey, for
that.
Another big round of applause for him.
And to show how successful the PDS is in getting new
users onto it, just a little bit here.
We have a little over 300, probably even more now,
350 accounts on the server calling npmx.
social their PDS home.
Like seriously, like take a look at the avatars
on the screen.
There are so many, and that's just some of them
.
And a lot of these people, if you actually take a
look at their PDSs, they haven't done anything
else.
Their first entry into the atmosphere is npmx.
And that's one of the ways that I'm really proud
of this project, is we're getting developers into the atmosphere
, slowly getting them acquainted with how wonderful this community is.
And with that in mind, you know, getting new developers
in, right, npmx is a developer platform.
We want to get new contributors up and running, right?
Like not only in the front end or the back end of
the code, but getting them to make social features very easily
.
And App Protocol makes that, yeah, I got it,
don't worry.
I'll press the next button soon.
No worries.
So, new contributors, you know, sometimes when you want
to add social features, it could be like proprietary data in
databases, then you'd need to have like secret keys to
work with production data, live data.
And it could be like very wonky, but you know
, as we all know, data is just JSON, right
?
Data like likes and packages and all that, they are shaped
in a standardized lexicon so that anyone can just read
it, you know, it's very straightforward.
And to work with said data, to manipulate it, you
use XRPC calls, which are basically just API fetch
calls, like if you know how to do curl or if
you know how to do await fetch on JavaScript, you can
work with live data.
And because the data is public and manipulating data is, or
querying data is just one fetch call away, a lot
of services and infrastructure has already popped up that makes it much
simpler to use, especially for new contributors and big projects like
ours.
So another big shout out to Fig, Phil for microcos
m, big ups, big ups.
Really one of the big pillars of the atmosphere so far,
if you want to get records without going straight to the PD
S's, you can use their services.
We use two mainly, Slingshot, we use to
resolve data, sorry, looking at the time, resolving data
, getting the mini-doc, so that'll just be
like the PDS, the DID, the handle, and
as well as getting specific records very, very easily.
These are the two, sorry, I can't see.
These are the two API routes that we use.
Not only do we use Slingshot, we also use
Constellation, a very useful tool and service that allows
us to go through backlinks, so we can go and
, you know, query a package and to figure out how
many people have liked it, like, specifically like individual data
, sometimes you have multiple like records, right?
We just want to get, to make sure that you only
have the one person per record, as well as getting the
backlinks.
We use Constellation for that.
And because of everything I've said so far, we've
managed to implement our very first social feature, which are likes
.
So you can see here, this is just a live demo
of my profile page, I only have 10 likes, but
you can see here we have a little profile with my name
, a little description.
I also added a website that you could go into.
And of course you could see all of the packages that I
have liked so far.
And of course if you as a developer want to take a
look at MPMX and do all these likes and stuff
, going to the connect corner here, going down to the
connect to atmosphere bit here, you can log in very quickly
.
There's also like a small description, I'm pretty proud
of that description.
You could create a new account again on our community hosted PD
S.
And there's also a connected blue sky if you want to
use that as well.
So there's actually a lot of activity when it comes to
likes when we release this feature.
So much so that since we started, MPMX is
one of, if not the biggest users of the microcos
m ecosystem.
So once again I want to say thank you so much Fig
, Phil, bad example, which is a really bad handle
.
You're a great example in the community for having these services
up for us to use.
And of course because the data is public, anybody can use
them on any website they want.
A great example here is Blento, where you can connect
any atmospheric data.
And if we scroll, oh, sorry, let me go
all the way here.
And if we scroll all the way down on our Blento
here, you can see there's so many contributors.
And we also have a leaderboard here.
So right now Svelte is at the top with almost
200 likes.
So shout out Team Orange, you're doing great.
Followed up by Nuxt, Veet, and V
ue.
I think they're all green.
So Team Green also catching up.
So if you have a package, if you have a community
, you know, show your support.
Tell people to like things on NPMX, right?
Let me scroll, let me go this way, yeah.
And now coding and, you know, virtue signaling with likes
, that's not the only way you can be a part
of an open source developer community, right?
You can be just talking about your favorite feature in a library
.
You can congregate, coalesce, collect different libraries
and implementations of your protocol.
In this case, there's a bunch of PDF stuff.
Or not even coding related, you can be a designer.
Dame over here changed the blue sky thing to better ingredients,
better piece of Papa John's.
That's great.
Design is also a part of being in the open source community
.
And so no matter where you are in the web, being
a part of the open source community, whether you're on
code base, code bases, right?
Like entangled and GitHub contributing code.
Whether you're talking on blue sky or Twitter.
Or if you have the money contributing with, through open collective
and Patreon, we want to surface your contributions as well.
Because it's not just coders, it's everyone.
And that's the goal with NPMX.
And so for the next slide here is a concept that community
member Alex whipped up on Figma for a future of N
PMX where you can scour the full network for what
the project is doing and its community.
So you could see here, it could be blue sky posts
, it could be GitHub patch notes, it could even be
the maintainers themselves just surfacing specific people.
So no matter if you're a maintainer, you're
a contributor, or you're just someone that we need to
give special thanks to, we want to shout you out.
And one of the ways that we're looking into implementing this
feature is Keytrace.
It's a very promising product where you can connect many different
accounts to your atmosphere account.
In this case, I have here mine where it's my
atmosphere account, right?
My app proto account connected to my Tangled, to my
GitHub, as well as just my website in general.
So you know that if you go to zayu.
dev, that is definitely me.
And so once again, I want to really, really stress
that no matter who you are, you can be a part
of the open source community.
So if you code, come and contribute code, right?
Engineer with us.
If you are a designer, make things pretty with everyone.
If you know any other languages, I only like, you
know, I really only know one, but some people can
do like 10.
Amazing.
Translate.
That's very, very important, right?
If you are really into accessibility, making sure everyone has access
, and everyone can use the tools that we build, you
are also important as well.
And of course, if you have the money to keep the
lights up, you are important too.
So if you are any one of these, and NPM
X has resonated with you, please come build with us.
We are at NPMX.
dev.
If you want to take a look at the code, we
are at repo.
npmx.
dev.
If you want to chat along, talk about anything and everything
NPMX, go to chat.
npmx.
dev.
That'll go to the Discord.
And of course, if you want to tag us on Blue
Sky and just, you know, talk online, we are
at social.
npmx.
With that in mind, I just want to say thank you
once again to the Atmosphere Conference, Boris, Ted
, Nick, for organizing this.
Everyone in this room who is so passionate about the atmosphere and
the future that it brings, that they're here in person
.
And of course, people who are online, watching remotely,
no matter where you are, it is very wonderful.
So once again, I want to say thank you.
And before we wrap up, I want to bring on Mat
ias for final remarks.
Matias for final remarks.
That was amazing.
That was great.
Yeah.
I wanted to say thank you, but you did it so
well.
So I shall say again, thank you so much.
And actually, these past days have shown us, like,
make us very hopeful.
Because you are not only building the technology that we need,
you are living it.
And this is also what we need.
Like, you are living in using the principles that you want
to put into the technology.
So, yeah, you make us very hopeful.
And I want to say that not only if you want to
build with us in the sense of building, like, MP
MX, but if you are building anything else, it
's still the stock.
Because there is always thing that we can collaborate.
We can abstract libraries and use them together.
We can help Fig, like, and give him the money
to actually, like, yeah.
We can do, really, a lot together.
So that's it.
Thanks a lot.